# Digest of "Diversity in Interpretations of Probability: Implications for Weather Forecasting" by Elía and Laprise, 2005

## Partitioning Uncertainty
Part of the uncertainty expressed by any wager or probability is uncertainty that is due to a system's inherent tendencies, and part is uncertainty surrounding unknown factors such as an incorrect model. 
For example, if we flip a coin and assume it is fair, we have a 50% chance of landing heads, which follows naturally from the fact that the coin can only land heads or tails.
This is Aleatoric uncertainty.
However, we cannot always be sure that a coin we are presented with is fair. 
This is where Epistemic uncertainty comes in.
I found this approach refreshing, as I usually just hear about the Bayesian/Frequentist distinction.
For an extended discussion of these and other kinds of probability, see [this wiki page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncertainty_quantification).

## Brier Score: Probabilities of Probabilities

In brief, if it rains 80% of the time a forecasting method predicts rain, that forecasting method is an accurate one, and the more the observed frequency of rainfall deviates from 80%, the worse the method is.

## Selected quotes

Averaging over a large area de-noises the signal at the cost of specificity:

> the reliability of a probabilistic forecast in a large area may be due to the contribution of compensating errors in different subregions

Brier score can't be calculated for singular events:

> there seems to be no straightforward interpretation of the probabilistic information generated by an ensemble forecast system for single cases.

Different interpretations of probability may be more or less useful for different purposes:

> There  are  several  schools  of  thought  regarding  the  interpretation of probabilities, and they intend to capture the meaning of probability in all its complexities.
> All of them, however, suffer flaws whose severity varies  depending  on  the  perspective  of  the  individual  users  (Weatherford 1982).
> For this reason, there are authors  who  believe  that  probabilities  cannot  be  defined  in  a  unique way.
> They are of the opinion that, in the same  way  that  the  wave-particle  duality  exists  in  quantum  mechanics, more than one interpretation of probability  may have to be accepted simultaneously (Gillies 2000).

## Appendix: Probability and Chaos
I made some connections between the coin-flip scenario and attractor dynamics, due to a recent encounter with Strogatz. No doubt these insights are not original, but if they were new to me they may be new to some readers.
Consider the following scenarios:

- you flip a coin and it lands heads or tails
- you pick a coin out of a box without looking at it, and place it on a table, before uncovering either heads or tails

Most people would agree these are probabilistically equivalent.
Now, take a more abstract scenario:

- you and your friend pick a number at random out of the real interval [1,0]. If they are on the same side of 0.5, you win
- you and your friend pick a number from the 2-element set {1,0}. If they are the same number, you win.

What is happening in the case where we flip a coin is that uncertainty arises out of the attractor dynamics in the chaotic system of a coin falling on the ground. 
This coin has an unstable fixed point (the side), and two stable fixed points (either face).
The sensitivity to initial conditions is what creates the uncertainty here.

